# ERC777
---

## Glossary
*  ERC780 - The linked registry contract, used to override and adapt functionality for the backwards compatibility with `ERC20`.  
*  Gas fees - The fees associated with an Ethereum transaction. 
*  Operators - _"An `operator` is an address which is allowed to send and burn tokens on behalf of another address." - `ERC777`_.
* Hooks - _"send/receive hooks offer token holders more control over their tokens." - `ERC777`_.


## Summary / TL;DR;
An improved version of the `ERC20` standard, with added functions such as operators, which can allow for a portion of the transactions value to be redirected, or used to cover gas fees. `ERC777` also implements hooks, which allow for more granular control over accounts as the hook can be used to regulate accepted tokens. 

## Advantages 
* Backwards compatible with `ERC20`, without the `ERC20` batchOverflow bug.
* Allows any wallet or contract to become compatible through the `ERC820` (see more in the table under uses).
* Operator functionality will allow for contracts to spend and burn tokens on behalf of the token owner. This has many benefits and uses. (Such as debit orders that do not need recurring approval, preventative measures from authorization fatigue).
* Hooks can be used to prevent crypto loss (receiving tokens you cannot handle in a contract or wallet).

## Disadvantages
* `ERC820` is badly documented and this has made it extremely difficult to use.
* Has not been implemented extensively enough for sufficient battle testing. 

## Uses 
The `ERC777` is backwards compatible to `ERC20` by allowing wallet addresses to implement proxy contracts to implement the `tokensReceived` hook (as to allow them the `ERC777` functionality). 
In order to be compatible with `ERC20` the following view functions must be implemented in an `ERC20` compatible manner: `name`, `symbol`, `totalSupply`, and `balanceOf`.
The Operators allow for set functions to 'fire' when a transaction takes place. 
_"The token contract MUST register the `ERC777` Token interface with its own address via `ERC820`." -`ERC777`_.
The `data` field of sends contains extra information intended for (and defined by) the recipient. The `operatorData` is for only the operator and is intended for a more logging purpose and particular cases. E.g: _"payment references, cheque numbers, countersignatures_ (etc.) _" - `ERC777`_.
The `send` and `operatorSend` functions must be implemented. 

##### Operators 
_"An `operator` is an address which is allowed to send and burn tokens on behalf of another address." - `ERC777`_.
A token holder can have multiple active operators at the same time. Operators can be added to a token after it has been distributed bought/sold. 
1. _"The token holder can '`authorize`' and '`revoke`' operators which can send tokens on their behalf. These operators are intended to be verified contracts such as an exchange, a cheque processor or an automatic charging system." - `ERC777`_.
    1. _"When an address becomes an `operator` for a token holder, an `AuthorizedOperator` event MUST be emitted." - `ERC777`_.
    2. _"When a token holder revokes an `operator`, a `RevokedOperator` event MUST be emitted." - `ERC777`_.
2. There can be default operators that the tokens come with. 
    1. _"The token contract MUST define default operators at creation time." - `ERC777`_.
    2. The token contract cannot and must not add or remove default operators ever. 
    3. The `AuthorizedOperator` event most not be emitted when defining default operators. 
    4. These default operators can be switched off by the token holder, _"unless the token holder is the default operator in question" - `ERC777`_. A token holder should be able to re-authorize a revoked default operator. 
3. There are rules surrounding the rights and abilities of operators: 
    1. A token holder should always be an operator for itself. This operator should never be revoked. 
    2. If an address is an operator for a token holder, `isOperatorFor` has to return true. And visa versa. 
    3.  The `AuthorizedOperator` and `RevokedOperator` event must be emitted when applicable. 
    4. If a token holder re-authorized an operator that is already authorized, a new event must be emitted, and the same goes for revoking an already evoked operator. 
4. There are various standard rules about when sending a token can be successful (approved operators transferring funds, emitting send events etc.) and when it must revert (such as when the token holder has insufficient funds). Below are some of the more notable and unique rules:
    1. _"The `data` and `operatorData` MUST be immutable during the entire send process—hence the same `data` and `operatorData` MUST be used to call both hooks and emit the Sent event." - `ERC777`_.
    2. _"The token contract MUST call the `tokensReceived` hook of the recipient if the recipient registers an `ERC777TokensRecipient` implementation via `ERC820`." - `ERC777`_.
    3. _"The operator MAY communicate any information in the `operatorData`" - `ERC777`_.
    4. The send must revert if _"the `operator` address is not an authorized operator for the token holder" - `ERC777`_.
    5. _"Sending an amount of zero (`0`) tokens is valid and MUST be treated as a regular send." - `ERC777`_.
5. The `operatorSend` function should send the `amount` of tokens on behalf of the address `from` the address `to`. The `msg.sender` must be the operators address. The `from` may be `0x0`.  
    1. _"NOTE: `from` and `msg.sender` MAY be the same address. I.e., an address MAY call `operatorSend` for itself. This call MUST be equivalent to `send` with the addition that the `operator` MAY specify an explicit value for `operatorData` (which cannot be done with the `send` function)." - `ERC777`_.

##### Hooks
_"The token contract MUST call the `tokensToSend` hook before updating the state. The token contract MUST call the `tokensReceived` hook after updating the state._ (for example:) _`tokensToSend` MUST be called first, then the balances MUST be updated to reflect the send, and finally `tokensReceived` MUST be called afterward. Thus a `balanceOf` call within `tokensToSend` returns the balance of the address before the send and a `balanceOf` call within `tokensReceived` returns the balance of the address after the send." - `ERC777`_.
1. _"Both contracts and regular addresses can control and reject which token they send/receive by registering a `tokensToSend` hook. (Rejection is done by `revert`ing in the hook function.)" - `ERC777`_.
2. _"The `tokensReceived` hook allows to send tokens to a contract and notify it in a single transaction, unlike `ERC20` which require a double call (`approve`/`transferFrom`) to achieve this." - `ERC777`_

##### Token minting
_"Minting tokens is the act of producing new tokens. `ERC777` intentionally does not define specific functions to mint tokens. This intent comes from the wish not to limit the use of the `ERC777` standard as the minting process is generally specific for every token." - `ERC777`_.
The token contract must emit a `Minted` event, the supply must increase and the balance of `0x0` must not decrease. The recipients balance must increase and the `tokensReceived` hook of the recipient (if the recipient has a registered an `ERC777TokensRecipient` via `ERC820`). The `data` and `operatorData` must be unchanged during the minting process.
The minting should `revert` if: _"The resulting recipient balance after the mint is not a multiple of the granularity defined by the token contract." - `ERC777`_, if _"The recipient is a contract, and it does not implement the ERC777TokensRecipient interface via ERC820." - `ERC777`_, and finally if the recipient is `0x0`.

##### Burning 
_"The `operator` and the token holder MUST both be the `msg.sender`. The `operator` MUST be `msg.sender`. The value of from MAY be `0x0`, then the `from` (token holder) used for the burn MUST be msg.sender (the operator)." - `ERC777`_. For further notes please see the `ERC777` repo. 

| ERC820 (`ERC777TokensRecipient`) | to address | ERC777 Sending And Minting | ERC20 transfer/transferFrom |
|:------:|:----------:|:--------------------------:|:---------------------------:|
| registered | regular address | call `tokensReceived` | call `tokensReceived` |
| registered | contract | call `tokensReceived` | call `tokensReceived` |
| not registered | regular address | accept | accept |
| not registered | contract | revert | accept |

## Resources
[`ERC777`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-777)
[`ERC820`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-820)
[What Crypto investors need to know about `ERC777` the new advanced token standard](https://cryptoslate.com/what-cryptocurrency-investors-need-to-know-about-erc777-the-new-advanced-token-standard/)
[New Ethereum Blockchain Token Standard `ERC777` Could Replace `ERC20`](https://www.ethnews.com/new-ethereum-blockchain-token-standard-erc777-could-replace-erc20)
[`ERC20` vs `ERC223` vs `ERC777`](https://101blockchains.com/erc20-vs-erc223-vs-erc777/)
