# ERC735
---

## Glossary
*  Claim - A peace of data that is associated with an identity. The identity has the ability to reject a claim made against their identity. 
*  Trusted third party - A contract that is an ERC735 

## Summary / TL;DR;
_"Standard functions for adding, removing and holding of claims. These claims can"_ (be) _"attested"_ (by) _"third parties (issuers) or self attested." - `ERC735`_. The `ERC735` standard deals with the management, creation, approval etc of claims. 

## Advantages 
* _"Will mainly be useful for pure Ethereum accounts or smart contracts. There is no advantage over in-contract claims when adding signatures to them" - ERC 735: Claim Holder Registry vs. in contract_.
* Claims can be mass removed by removing key that signed them.

## Disadvantages
* Much has not ben decided on or implemented. Much needs improvement / refinement. 
* Less granular control with claims as to remove a claim you must remove they key that signed it, meaning any other claim signed with that key will also be removed. 
* Requires more gas due to complexity. 
* _"Verifying claim signatures on chain can be costly." -  ERC 735: Claim Holder Registry vs. in contract_
* _"Will mainly be useful for pure Ethereum accounts or smart contracts. There is no advantage over in-contract claims when adding signatures to them" - ERC 735: Claim Holder Registry vs. in contract_.
* _"Will be hard to change, or to improve over time, as the code once deployed is fixed, or needs a complicated upgrade mechanism" - ERC 735: Claim Holder Registry vs. in contract_.
* Requires a trusted third parties. 

## Uses 
_"This standardized claim holder interface will allow Dapps and smart contracts to check the claims about a claim holder. Trust is here transferred to the issuers of claims." - `ERC735`_

##### The `claim issuer`
_"`claim issuer`: is another smart contract or external account, which issues claims about this identity. The claim issuer can be an identity contract itself." - `ERC735`_.

##### The `claim`
_"A `claim` is an information an issuer has about the identity holder." - `ERC735`_. A `claim` is a struct that has: a `uint256 topic`, a `uint256 scheme`, an `issuer` (unknown data type), a `signature`, `data` and a `URI`. The claims can be searched by `claimId`, and by `topic`.
1. A `topic` represents the topic of the claim. eg: `1 = biometric`, `2 = residence`, etc. These still need to be defined. 
2. A `scheme` that the claim should be verified with, or how it should be processed. e.g: `3` could mean contract verification, the `issuer` could be the contract address to call. _"Those can also mean different key types e.g. `1 = ECDSA`, `2 = RSA`, etc. (ToBeDefined)" - `ERC735`_
3. The `issuer` is the _"The issuers identity contract address, or the address used to sign the above signature." - `ERC735`_. If its the identity contract it should hold the key that signed the message above?. If the key is no longer present the `claim` should be treated as invalid. 
The `issuer` can also be a contract address, in which case the `claim` can be verified using the call `data`.
4. The `signature` is the proof that the `claim` `issuer` issued a `claim` of `topic` for the identity. _"it MUST be a signed message of the following structure: `keccak256(address identityHolder_address, uint256 _ topic, bytes data)` // or `keccak256(abi.encode(identityHolder_address, topic, data))`" - `ERC735`_.
5. The `data` is the hash of the `claim data`, _"sitting in another location, a bit-mask, call data, or actual data based on the claim scheme." - `ERC735`_.
6. The `uri` is the location of the `claim`, can be an HTTP link, swarm hash, IPFS hash etc. 

##### The `claim` functionality
1. `getClaim`: Returns a claim by ID. Claim IDs are generated as follows: `keccak256(address issuer_address + uint256 topic)`.
2. `getClaimIdsByTopic`: Returns an array of claim IDs by topic.
3. `addClaim`: _"Requests the ADDITION or the CHANGE of a claim from an issuer. Claims can requested to be added by anybody, including the claim holder itself (self issued)." - `ERC735`_.
4. `removeClaim`: Removes a claim. Can only be removed by the claim issuer, or the claim holder itself.


## Resources
[`ERC735`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/735)
[`ERC725` Linked identity standard](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/725)
[ERC 735: Claim Holder Registry vs. in contract](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/ERC-735:-Claim-Holder-Registry-vs.-in-contract)
[First impressions with ERC 725 and ERC 735 — identity and claims](https://hackernoon.com/first-impressions-with-erc-725-and-erc-735-identity-and-claims-4a87ff2509c9)
[ERC725 with ERC735 - Identity and Claims](https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/57851/erc725-with-erc735-identity-and-claims)
