# ERC1056
---

## Glossary
*  `delegate` -  _"An address that is delegated for a specific time to perform some sort of function on behalf of an identity" - `ERC1056`_
*  `delegateType` -   _"The type of a delegate, is determined by a protocol or application higher up Examples: `did-jwt`, `raiden`" - `ERC1056`_
*  `attribute` - _"A piece of data associated with the identity" - `ERC1056`_

## Summary / TL;DR;
`ERC1056` is an identity standard that allows an identity to have an unlimited number of `delegates`(addresses that can sign on your behalf) and `attributes`(data associated with ID) associated with it. The `attributes` are made by the `ERC780` standard, they are claims, badges or data associated with the identity. `delegates` are addresses that you give specially permissioned keys to. With these permissioned keys `delegates` can do things such as, debit your account every month (subscription services), sign data for you (signed messages (proof of consent)). These `delegates` will prevent a lot of authorization fatigue. Able to be created offline, fit for on and off chain.

## Advantages 
* Can `delegate` authority
* Lightweight & cheap to create (an identity). _"All existing ethereum wallets are valid identities." - ERC1056 ❤ ERC780_.
* Can create _"off-chain claims that are signed by a DID that is anchored on-chain, claims can remain private while retaining the security of the blockchain." - ERC1056 ❤ ERC780_


## Disadvantages
* Central point of failure (if there is a bug in the `EthereumDIDRegistry` there will be huge problems as there is ONE register contract).
* 

## Uses 
_"This `ERC` specifies a contract called `EthereumDIDRegistry` that is deployed once and can then be commonly used by everyone." - `ERC1056`_. 
Identities by default are owned by themselves, but the ownership can be changed. 
An identity made with `ERC1056` can have an unlimited number of `delegates` and `attributes`. The `delegate` functionality allows for the identity to give keys to other addresses with varying levels of control over the identity's funds and signature. `Attribute`'s allow a piece of data to be associated with the identity.  

##### `delegate` functionality
A user can create a delegate, which creates a private key for the delegate to act on behalf of the identity. This delegation can be permanent or have a expiry date. A user can choose to revoke a delegation, but will lose any claims made by delegate. _"A delegate can be used both on- and off-chain to sign on behalf of the identity that assigned it." - ERC1056 ❤ ERC780_

1. They have not finalized method of removal of claims as the standard has not yet been released, (must be done through 780) but the proposed methods are:
    1. Revoking individual claims: (pro: granularity) (con: unsalable for multiple claim removals)
    2. Grouped removals using IPFS with the hashes of claims to be revoked. (pro: grouped removals) (con: little room for error; external system)
    3. Removing a delegate: (pro: remove all claims by delegate) (con: remove all claims by delegate, unable to keep specific).

##### `attribute`'s
Attributes and claims to the identity are made by the `ERC780`.
_"Attributes contain simple data about the identity. They can be managed only by the owner of the identity" - `ERC1056`_. These can be used for claiming anything from self claimed email address to a delegate app with a delegated key that claims progress in the app.
1. Claims can be off-chain allowing fro sensitive and private data to be linked to an identity without revelling the information.

## Resources
[`ERC1056`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1056)
[ERC1056 ❤ ERC780 - an open identity and claims protocol for Ethereum](https://medium.com/uport/erc1056-erc780-an-open-identity-and-claims-protocol-for-ethereum-aef7207bc744)
[`ERC1056` lightweight identity](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/8grzs2/erc1056_lightweight_identity/)
