# ERC725
---

## Glossary
*  ERC - Ethereum Request for Comment.
*  ERC735 - The contract for making claims on ERC725 identities. 
*  Actions - transactions, documents, logins, access, etc.
*  Authorization fatigue - When the process of signing transactions becomes so frequent that the user no longer reads or realized the implications of the transaction. 

## Summary / TL;DR;
A _"Proxy contract for key management and execution, to establish a Blockchain identity." - `ERC725`_ 
The `ERC725` was made with a single focus, to manage identities. Its counterpart `ERC735` manages claims on those identities. The `ERC725` can be used to uniquely identify humans, groups, objects and machines. The identity created by an `ERC725` can hold keys to sign actions and claims. The `ERC725` also has a proxy function to act directly on the blockchain. Claims can be attested from third parties, or self-attested (through `ERC735`). 

## Advantages 
* Having various permmisioned keys allows for a more practical implementation of identity management. 
    * By allowing for various roles to be handed out
    * Having compleat control to revoke a permission 
    * Allowing for contracts to do actions on behalf of a user without their constant interaction. This is a particularly good feature as this means the user can avoid having to constantly approve mindless low-importance permissions for a dApp, preventing authorization fatigue. 

## Disadvantages
* Much still needs to be decided upon, implemented and finalized.
* Expensive to create identities.

## Uses 
This standard can be used to hold an identity, multiple keys, as well as have associated claims on that identity. The `ERC725` contract can be used as a proxy through its `execute` / `approve` functions. These functions work off permissioned keys.

##### Key Managment 
_*Keys are cryptographic public keys or contract addresses associated with this identity.* - `ERC725`_
1. The `Key` a struct of the public keys owned by the identity. The `Key` struct contains `uint256[] purposes`, `uint256 keyType` and a `bytes32 key`. 
    1. The `purpose` is an array of the key types, _"like `1 = MANAGEMENT`, `2 = ACTION`, `3 = CLAIM`, `4 = ENCRYPTION`" - `ERC725`_. 
    2. The `keyType` is the type of key used. This is defined by its `uint256`, _"e.g. `1 = ECDSA`, `2 = RSA`, etc." - `ERC725`_.
    3. The `key` is the `bytes32` public key. (for non-hex and long keys, its the Keccak256 hash of the key).
2. Read `ERC725` resource for more technical information, such as how to get a key, the keys purpose, and retrieving keys by their purpose.

##### The `execute` / `approve` functions
These functions are not in their final stage and much of the functionality is yet to be implemented.
1. The `execute` function _"Executes an action on other contracts, or itself, or a transfer of ether." - `ERC725`_
    1. _"SHOULD require `approve` to be called with one or more keys of purpose `1` or `2` to approve this execution." - `ERC725`_
    2. _"Execute COULD be used as the only accessors for `addKey`, `removeKey` and `replaceKey` and `removeClaim`." - `ERC725`_ 
    3. The `execute` function should return the `executionId`. This is the ID of the execution. 
2. The `approve` function should approve an execution or claim addition. 
    1. _"This SHOULD require `n` of  `m` approvals of keys purpose `1`,"_ (`MANAGEMENT`) _"if the `_to` of the execution is the identity contract itself" - `ERC725`_.
    2. _"And COULD require `n` of `m` approvals of keys purpose `2`,"_ (`ACTION`) _"if the `_to` of the execution is another contract" - `ERC725`_.
3. The `ERC725` in its current state requires changes in the `ERC735` contract. For further details read the `ERC725` resource on the "Identity verification" section. 

## Resources
[`ERC725`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/725)
[`ERC735`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/735)
[First impressions with ERC 725 and ERC 735 - identity and claims](https://hackernoon.com/first-impressions-with-erc-725-and-erc-735-identity-and-claims-4a87ff2509c9)
[ERC725 Alliance](https://erc725alliance.org/)

* Used as the definition for authorization fatigue:
[Proposals for making web3 a better experience](https://medium.com/@wighawag/3-proposals-for-making-web3-a-better-experience-974f97765700)
* Further reading:
[Managing Identity with a UI for `ERC725`](https://medium.com/originprotocol/managing-identity-with-a-ui-for-erc-725-5c7422b38c09)