# ERC780
---

## Glossary
*  `selfClaim` - A `claim` an address makes about itself.  
*  `claim` - A peace of data associated with an identity. For example (`selfClaim`): `0xabcd...` claims that the email address of `0xabcd...` is example@example.com.
*  `indexed` - A keyword for an `event` that makes the information searchable.  

## Summary / TL;DR;
`ERC780` is a registry, _"which allows persons, smart contracts, and machines to issue claims about each other, as well as self issued claims." - `ERC780`_. This provides a flexible approach for claims that dose not distinguish between different addresses. A `claim` is non transferable. `ECR780` aims to provide a central point of reference for on-chain claims on Ethereum.

## Advantages 
* `claim`'s are not transferable.
* `claim`'s can be self attested or by a third party. 
* Simple registry implementation, easy to understand and follow. 

## Disadvantages
* No date set for finalization of the standards.

## Uses 
_"Claims are issued from an `issuer` to a `subject` with a `key`, which is of type `bytes32`. The claims data is stored as type `bytes32`." - `ERC780`_

##### The `claims` 
1. Claims are stored in a 3D mapping: 
`mapping(address => mapping(address => mapping(bytes32 => bytes32))) public registry;`
    1. The first `mapping`'s  key is the `address` of the `issuer`, with the value being the second `mapping`. The `issuer` is the address (`msg.sender`) that is creating the `claim`.
    2. The second `mapping`'s key is the `address` of the `subject` with the value being the third `mapping`. The `subject` is the address that the `claim` is being made on.
    3. The last `mapping`'s key is the `key` of the `claim` with the value of `value`. 
        * The `key` is used to indicate the type of claim that is being made. _"There are three ways that are encouraged for use in the ECR:" - `ERC780`_.
            1. _"Standardized claim types use syntax borrowed from HTTP and do not start with `X-`. The key is the hash of the claim type (eg, `keccak256('Owner-Address')`)" - `ERC780`_.
            2. _"Private types not intended for interchange use the same syntax, but with `X-` prefix. The key is the hash of the claim type (eg, `keccak256('X-My-Thing')`)" - `ERC780`_.
            3. _"Ad-hoc types use 32 random bytes for the key, enabling allocation of new globally used keys without the need for standardization first." - `ERC780`_.
    4. In the event emitted on a `claims` creation, all of the above is emitted in the format of: `address indexed issuer, address indexed subject, bytes32 indexed key, bytes32 value`, with the additional information of a time stamp of type `uint` called `updatedAt` is included. 
2. When a `claim` is removed this path is deleted.
3. Off-chain claims can be made. _"The `issuer` simply signs some data and encodes it into a format called `Json Web Tokens` (`JWT`). These `JWT` can later be verified by anyone. Revoking off-chain claims is trickier." - `ERC1056` ❤ `ERC780`_. For more information about revoking off-chain `claim`'s please refer to the resource `ERC1056` ❤ `ERC780`.
4. `claim`'s or `badge`'s are given to an identity and ownership can never be transferred. _"Badges on the other hand are given to an identity and can never change hands. It could be an indicator of a particular achievement or status within a group etc." - `ERC1056` ❤ `ERC780`_

## Resources
[`ERC780`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/780)
[`ERC1056`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1056)
[`ERC1056` ❤ `ERC780` - an open identity and claims protocol for Ethereum](https://medium.com/uport/erc1056-erc780-an-open-identity-and-claims-protocol-for-ethereum-aef7207bc744)
[`ERC780`: Ethereum Claim Registry](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/7gewn7/erc_780_ethereum_claim_registry/)
