# ERC820
---

## Glossary
*  Registry - Allows for the storage of information in a formatted and accessible way.
*  - 
*  - 

## Summary / TL;DR;
_"This standard defines a universal registry smart contract where any address (contract or regular account) can register which interface it supports and which smart contract is responsible for its implementation. This standard keeps backward compatibility with `ERC165`." - `ERC820`_.
The `ERC820` standard is a registry standard that allows for contracts and regular addresses to publish which functionalities they implement, directly or through a proxy. Any address can query the registry for information about a specific address implements an interface, and which smart contract handles its implementation. 

## Advantages 
* Lots of community support
* Allows for normal wallet addresses to have control over their accepted tokens (in conjunction with `ERC777`).

## Disadvantages
* Difficult implementation 
* Central point of failure (if there is a bug in the contract there will be huge problems as there is ONE register contract for all the interfaces).

## Uses 
This registry is backwards compatible with `ERC165`. This registry allows for queries about an addresses implementation of a given interface.  _"Interfaces with zeroes (`0`) as the last 28 bytes are considered `ERC165` interfaces, and this registry SHALL forward the call to the contract to see if it implements the interface. This contract also acts as an `ERC165` cache to reduce gas consumption." - `ERC820`_.
This standard is simpler that `ERC672` and is completely decentralized. The motivation for not using reverse ENS (like `ERC672` dose) is _" First, it is unnecessarily complicated, and second, ENS is still a centralized contract controlled by a multisig. This multisig theoretically would be able to modify the system." - `ERC820`_.
There can be a manager for an address (regular or contract). The manager _" is the only entity allowed to register implementations of interfaces for the address. By default, any address is its own manager." - `ERC820`_.

##### Across chains & deployment
_"This registry MAY be deployed on any chain and shares the same address on all chains." - `ERC820`_.
1. The contract is planned to be deployed using the keyless deployment method, known as Nicks method (for more info please see the resources).
2. The registry is planned to have the same address across chains. 

##### Interfaces
_"Any interface name is hashed using `keccak256` and sent to `getInterfaceImplementer()`. If the interface is part of a standard, it is best practice to explicitly state the interface name and link to this published `ERC820` such that other people don’t have to come here to look up these rules." - `ERC820`_.
1. The `ERC820` contract as a method for getting the interfaces hash (`function interfaceHash(string _interfaceName) public pure returns(bytes32)`).
    1. _"If the interface is part of an approved `ERC`, it MUST be named `ERC###XXXXX` where `###` is the number of the `ERC` and `XXXXX` should be the name of the interface in CamelCase." - `ERC820`_. E.g: `keccak256("ERC777TokensRecipient")`
    2. If the interface is not apart of an `ERC` it as known as a _Private User-defined Interface_. To set an interface for an address, it must call the `setInterfaceImplementer(address _addr, bytes32 _interfaceHash, address _implementer)` function of the `ERC820` registry. _"The `_interfaceHash` MUST NOT be an `ERC165` interface—it MUST NOT end with 28 zeroes (`0`)." - `ERC820`_.
    3. _"If a contract implements the interface (`interfaceHash`) for a given address (`addr`), it MUST return `ERC820_ACCEPT_MAGIC` when called with the addr and the `interfaceHash`. If it does not implement the `interfaceHash` for a given address (`addr`), it MUST NOT return `ERC820_ACCEPT_MAGIC`." - `ERC820`_
2. `ERC165` compatible interfaces 
    1. _"Anyone can explicitly check if a contract implements an ERC165 interface using the registry by calling one of the two functions `function implementsERC165Interface(address _contract, bytes4 _interfaceId) public view returns (bool)`" - `ERC820`_.
    2. The result is cached. If the cache is out of date it must be updated. See `ERC820` for more details.

## Resources
[`ERC820`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-820)
[`ERC777`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-777)
[Nicks method (article)](https://medium.com/@weka/how-to-send-ether-to-11-440-people-187e332566b7)
[EIP 820: Pseudo-introspection using a registry contract](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/820)
[`EIP820`](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-820.md)